# The Rule of Cool

The Unofficial RWBY Tabletop uses a mechanic called the Rule of Cool (RoC). The Rule of Cool is applied when players do something so awesome that conventional logic is ignored. Like the source material of RWBY, the grander the spectacle is, then the more likely it will be to succeed. If the GM is impressed by a player’s creativity or a particularly cinematic action, normal hindrances will be ignored and the upper limit of what is possible can be removed entirely. Anything is possible if the players roll high enough and the Rule of Cool is the stepping stone to accomplish the impossible.

Ultimately, what is and is not “Cool” is for the GM to judge. Every GM is different, some being quite generous and others being more fickle. Most will fall somewhere in the middle. Players have no concrete way to generate RoC and instead must rely on their own creative processes rather than an in game mechanic.

RoC comes into play as an additional d10 added to the table. This extra die is given to every player to add to every roll. If one player succeeds at their attempted action and impress their GM, every member of the party will gain a d10. For every additional d10 available on skill checks, players also gain an additional d6 for all damage rolls.

To generate RoC a player must firstly impress their GM with a cool idea, then succeed on the Skill Checks required for the cool idea. Players also automatically generate RoC upon rolling a Natural 20. When RoC is generated, it does not come into play until the next immediate turn phase. This is unless the RoC was generated by a Natural 20, in which case the extra d10 is added immediately to that attempted roll and all subsequent rolls on the player’s turn. RoC remains for every player until either the end of the encounter, a natural 2 is rolled, or if the player’s actions stagnate. Earning a low level of cool then sitting on it can cause it to decrease as well.

Players earn and lose cool as a team. It is impossible to note every possible way to generate RoC, as it is entirely reliant on GM judgment. GMs are suggested to read into their players own tastes and find a balance. However, simple ideas can be used as starting points for RoC to be inspired.

RoC can stack infinitely, adding an additional d10 to the pool many times. However, with each additional level the stakes are raised and characters must push the limits even further to gain that extra boost in damage, power, and skill. Generally no more than one or two levels of RoC can be generated in a given encounter, but extremely long encounters with particularly creative players may breach that barrier. The soft cap for RoC is +3d10, and anything beyond that requires performing the truly amazing or the downright impossible.
