# Introduction

Remnant is a world in which Man has been brought to the brink of extinction. Driven back by the creatures of darkness known as Grimm, Man was nearly helpless. However, in time, Man’s ingenuity led to the development of Dust. Dust is nature’s wrath in physical form, and with Dust, Man could bend the forces of nature, and by extension, the creatures of Grimm to his will. Since then, great Huntsmen and Huntresses have been selected and trained to protect Man and all his kingdoms from the creatures of Grimm, who are always ready to strike at the first sign of weakness, and destroy Man forever.

RWBY (Pronounced “Ruby”) is an American anime created by Monty Oum and produced by Rooster Teeth Productions. Its unique style, art, and animation has inspired many dedicated fans to produce their own art, fiction, and stories set in this universe. The Unofficial RWBY Role Playing Game is an attempt to emulate the action packed feel and over the top antics of RWBY and Remnant as a whole. The Unofficial RWBY RPG uses the “RoC System” of dice and mechanics to bring Remnant to the classic pen-and-paper tabletop genre. Like almost every “Tabletop” game that has come before it, the RoC System is a social experience.

It is fuelled mostly by imagination with a little bit of randomness in the form of dice to keep things interesting. There is no winning or score or time limit. Cooperation is key. The game is meant to be played by a handful of friends gathered around a table, playing the roles of amazing characters, both heroes and villains, as they explore an unknown and dangerous world. The RoC System is optimized for 4 players and 1 Game Master (GM) but groups as small as 2 to as many as 6 players is reasonable. Players assume the roles of Huntsmen and Huntresses in training that will become the first and last line of defence of Remnant. Each Character is unique, with their own strengths and weaknesses, abilities and backgrounds. They come from every kingdom of Remnant and enjoy a certain fame among the masses. GMs shoulder the weight of every enemy, obstacle and non-player character (NPC). The GM is the ultimate window into Remnant, part storyteller, referee, general, and actor. It requires the ability to plan epic adventures and improvise when the plan falls apart. The GM works both with and against players simultaneously, giving them obstacles to overcome, but is never their enemy. It is a great responsibility to take on the role of GM, but no game would be possible without one.

### The Most Important Rule
The GM has ultimate power over the game. A GM can overrule anything in this book to better suit the needs of their group. Nothing in this book is presented as the ultimate list of every possibility imaginable. It merely provides a backdrop for more to be built upon. Especially when it comes to Character Creation, stifling creativity and barring certain ideas should always be avoided. Ultimately the goal of this game, like any game, is to have fun.
