# The Basics
To play the RoC System, players will firstly need some pencils, paper, and dice. Most dice, such as those found in common household board games are six sided cubes, called a d6. When referring to different varieties of dice, the term “#d#” will be used a great deal, the first “#” stands for the number of dice, and the second “d#” refers to the number of sides on the die. The RoC System uses two kinds of dice, six-sided (d6) and ten-sided (d10), often using many of each at once. Dice can usually be found in hobby shops or online. There are also many digital options in the way of number generators if all else fails. The minimum requirements are 2d10 and 1d6, but this will quickly become inadequate. Other useful tools are calculators, maps and character tokens. The RoC System does not require the use of a battle grid as is the case in many other tabletops, but it is recommended.

Every player except the GM begins with 2d10. The GM will never need to roll any dice. These first two dice should be marked, or be a different color than any other dice, as they are unique to that player. These are called their “Natural Dice”. When a Character attempts an action they will roll a Skill Check. A Skill Check is any action that is more difficult than any normal everyday activity. Be it performing acrobatics, avoiding hazards, or attacking enemies, Skill Checks start by rolling 2d10 and adding the two resulting numbers together. Next the relevant two Base Attributes are added to the result. Which kinds of actions fall under what attributes will be covered in the Attributes Section. Any time in which both die have a result of 10 it is called a “Natural 20”.

A Natural 20 (also called a Critical Success) is regarded as an automatic success on a given check and usually means that it has been passed with flying colors. However, the same concept applies for two results of 1, which is called a Natural 2 or “Critical Failure”. A Natural 2 automatically fails and can complicate things drastically. It is almost always better to roll higher than it is to roll lower. Only the player’s first two Natural dice can be a Critical Success or Failure. As the game continues, the players pool of dice will increase, increasing to 3d10 and 4d10 and so on. But the two Natural Dice remain unique.

Damage is different than a from Skill Check. Specifically when rolling attacks, a player rolls a skill check for accuracy to determine if they hit the opponent. If they succeed they may roll damage. Damage always starts as 1d6, and can be further modified from there. Damage is not always increased by an attribute, but other sources may contribute to it.

Skill Checks are presented to players as the attributes that contribute most appropriately the task the character is trying to accomplish. GMs do not need to present the threshold of a check to players that all the information is not available to them, such as making a leap of faith in the dark. All Skill Checks come in increments of 5, starting at 10.
